# EPL-prediction
2020 EPL League prediction using 5 years big 6 league data


## Introduction

>Throughout the years, statistics have become a large part of sports. In baseball there is sabermetrics that started in the mid-1900s, and basketball has an APBR metric. But we've never heard of any soccer related metrics. We wanted to see if we could find metrics for soccer. However, in soccer, there are no standardized metrics like sabermetrics. This is because, unlike other sports, soccer does not produce many scores. In 2020, the average score for an MLB team per game was 4.83 runs, which is about 10 points per game, and the NBA average game score was 111.8 points which is about 200 points per game. On the other hand, soccer, EPL (English Premier League) average score per game was 2.69 which scores much lower than other sports. It can be seen that soccer has some sort of randomness, which is why soccer is more difficult to predict than other sports. In other words, baseball and basketball can collect more scoring data per game which can be generalized, but soccer, with strong randomness,  requires an index that can fairly evaluate players while excluding random elements such as luck as much as possible. However, we found the concept of "Expected Goals", which is a data in which “Opta” calculates the likelihood of scoring in a specific situation and in a specific location from data from more than 300,000 shots in 2017. We wanted to test to see how important these statistics were to earning points in the league which would consequently lead to more wins. We ran regression tests as well as KNN and Random Forest to find whether or not these stats can be considered significant or not. If we can use these statistics to see if teams will win more games, we can manage our teams more efficiently by focusing on improving xG and related stats.
